Alif Lam Meem, Allah, La ilaha illa Huwa Al-Hibb Al-Qayyum,
Nazala alayka Al-Kitab Bil-Haqq Musabdiqa Lima Bayna Yadihi Wa Anzala Al-Tawrat Wa Al-Injeel,
Min Qabnu Hudan Li Al-Nas Wa Anzala Al-Furqan,
Inna Allatheena Kafuroo Bi Ayat Allahi Lahum Azaabuhu Shadeed,
Wa Allahu Azizun Zuntiqan,
Inna Allaha La Yakhda Alayhi Shajijin Fi Al-Ardi Wa La Fi Al-Sama,
Assalamu Alaikum Wa Rahmatullahi Wa Barakatuhu
Bismillahir Rahmanir Raheem, Alhamdulillahi Rabbil Alameen,
Wa bihi Nasta'een Wa Nusalli Wa Nusallimu Ala Afdali Al-Khalqi Ajmaeen,
Nabi'ina Muhammadin Wa Ala Alihi Wa Sahbihi Wa Al-Tabi'ina,
Wa Man Tabi'ahum Bi Ihsanin Ila Yawm Al-Din Wa Ba'a,
We commence as always by praising Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala,
Nourisher, Cherisher, Sustainer, Provider, Protector, Curer of one and all,
and we send complete blessings and salutations upon Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
upon all the messengers whom Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala had sent down to man,
from the very beginning right to the very end,
and we ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala to bless all the companions of Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
those who struggled and strived in order to protect the Deen,
to look after it, to convey it in such a way that today it has got to us.
May Allah make us from amongst those who can preserve it
and realize how fortunate we are to be from amongst the Ummah of Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam.
If you take a look at the persecution of the people who had accepted Islam in the early stages,
if you ask yourself a question as we did yesterday,
why did they accept this faith? Was it because they found wealth there?
No. Was it because they found status there?
No. Was it because they found something material there?
No. Was somebody forcing them?
No. Did anyone put a sword at their necks and tell them believe?
No. So they accepted Islam purely out of faith and conviction.
Nobody accepted Islam being forced.
In fact, those who wanted to accept Islam in a lot of the cases
thought about it so deeply before they actually accepted
because they knew the type of persecution they were going to face
the minute they uttered the Shahadah,
I bear witness that there is no god but Allah
and I bear witness that Muhammad is His servant and His Messenger.
Take a look at Mus'ab ibn Umayr, may Allah be pleased with him.
He was from a very, very wealthy family.
He was very spoiled by his parents to the degree that Rasulullah Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam says,
I did not know a person who was more spoiled by his mother than Mus'ab.
Mus'ab had clothes which were so well laid.
He was dressed very well.
He was smelt before he was seen.
They knew this man and his itr.
So before you could see the man, you would smell him.
He was from a very wealthy family, MashaAllah, looked after and spoiled.
When he heard the message of Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
he accepted it.
When he accepted it, he kept it quiet so his family doesn't know,
from a very powerful family.
And one day, one person saw him reading Salah
and they went and told his mother,
do you know what, this man is fulfilling prayers
according to the manner prescribed or taught by Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam.
And immediately, all hell broke loose.
She went to him, she spoke to him, she threatened him.
He obviously did not deny the fact.
So he was grounded to the home.
Everything was taken away from him.
Nothing spent on him until there came a time
when he did not have proper clothing to wear.
And when his skin, after it had been so soft
and well looked after, it had started flaking off.
And still, to him, that meant nothing.
He was so happy that he had had guidance.
How many of us, may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us,
are ready to sacrifice for our deen?
We have it on the plate.
No one is holding a sword at our necks.
And no one ever holds swords at our necks.
We have this on our plate,
but still we find it difficult to adopt
what Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam had brought
when it comes to some of the smaller items within our lives
or sometimes there are major things within our lives
that we refuse to surrender to.
For example, the laws of inheritance.
Many people, no matter how wealthy they are,
they tend to forget about what Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam said
when it comes to the laws of inheritance,
the treatment of women, for example.
When it comes to various other matters
that don't suit us sometimes,
we tend to just throw it away.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala make us from those
who understand and realize.
So this is the example of Mus'ab ibn Umayr.
If you look at his life,
you will find something amazing.
He was one of those who took part in the battles.
He had gone to Habasha.
Habasha is Abyssinia.
When Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
instructed that a little bit later on
because of the persecutions.
And he took part in the Battle of Uhud.
And he was martyred in the Battle of Uhud
to the degree that when he passed away,
they were burying him.
If they covered his feet, his face was showing.
If they covered his face, his feet was showing.
He didn't even have enough to cover himself.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness.
Then when the verses were revealed as we had said,
فَصْدَعْ بِمَا تُؤْمَرُ وَأَعْرِضْ عَنِي الْمُشْرِكِينَ
Proclaim that which you have been instructed.
And turn away from the Mushriks.
These polytheists, turn away from them.
Don't fight them.
Don't retaliate.
So the instruction that Allah gave his messenger was
you proclaim the message but do not retaliate.
If someone attacks you, remain silent.
Don't retaliate.
Don't respond.
Be calm.
There was a reason why Allah had said this.
In fact, not one reason but many reasons.
The wisdom was Allah's.
For us, was just adoption of the law of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
People understand, some people don't understand.
Whether you understand or not,
success lies in adopting the law and the command.
Sometimes with us we say, why is this the case?
It's good to ask, mashaAllah.
But whether then you understand it or not,
you must realize what is compulsory will remain compulsory.
What is prohibited will remain prohibited.
Whether you understand it or not, subhanallah.
Because with our small brains and minds,
sometimes we would not understand the bigger picture
and we won't understand the wisdom of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
when he instructs something.
So Allah says to Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasallam,
proclaim the message and don't retaliate.
Don't respond.
So now Quraysh was called
and they were given the message.
They were told one by one.
And Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasallam
began attending the festivals of the kuffar.
He would go to the Ka'ba
and there they had a habit of people making tawaf naked.
Men and women, absolutely naked.
Because foolishly they would promise their gods
that if this happens to us, we will do this.
And if we do this, we want that to happen to us and so on.
So what would happen?
They would go around the Ka'ba naked.
Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasallam would go there
and he would look down and say,
ayyuhannas qulu la ilaha illallah tuflihu
O people, say there is none worthy of worship besides Allah,
besides the maker, the one who made you,
whoever made you, he is the only one worthy of worship.
Whoever you are going to return to,
he is the only one worthy of worship.
Utter those words and you will succeed.
Subhanallah.
And he continued saying that.
He was not bothered or interested
in how they were dressed or not dressed.
He wanted the message to get to them
as per the instruction of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
He did not intermingle.
Obviously, he did not intermingle.
They were naked.
He looked down and he continued delivering the message.
But the fact that they were naked
did not stop him from delivering the message.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us a deep understanding.
When it comes to delivering the message,
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala help us learn a lesson
from what had happened at that time.
So here, Muhammad salallahu alaihi wasalam
faced persecution of Quraish.
They wanted to beat him up.
You've got the audacity to come
in our own midst, our territory.
And you want to come and talk about our gods and our idols.
And he did not used to swear the idols, not at all.
But all he used to do is say,
these idols will not harm, they will not benefit.
You know, if you look at one of the slave girls,
her name was Zinnirah.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala be pleased with her.
She accepted Islam, she was a slave girl.
And Abu Jahl and the likes began to punish her.
They punished her, they beat her up
because obviously she was a Roman girl.
Allahu Akbar had come from the Roman Empire.
She was enslaved.
And when they beat her up so much,
she continued reiterating that she believes in one god,
not in Allat wa al-Uzza.
Allat wa al-Uzza were names of these idols.
And they beat her so much that she went blind.
And what had happened is they started mocking
until Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiallahu anhu came forth
with some wealth and he purchased her
and he freed her for the sake of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
So when she was leaving, they started commenting.
They said, it is Allat wa al-Uzza
through whom your sight has been taken away
because you went against our idols.
The idols have taken away your sight.
At that juncture, she said,
Wallahi, Allat and al-Uzza,
they can neither harm nor benefit,
neither me nor themselves.
My eyesight went because of Allah's decision
and He is the one who will return it to me.
As she said that, do you know what happened?
Her eyesight was restored.
Miracle happened in the midst of Quraysh subhanallah.
They were gobsmacked,
but it still did not bat their eyelids.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant Zinnirah radiallahu anhu
a lofty rank in Jannah.
She indeed went through a lot
and her eyesight was restored miraculously.
So Quraysh, they began to plan and plot
against the Muslims.
They were harming them.
They didn't want to do business with them.
And at the same time, they began swearing, mocking.
Wherever they could, they would beat up people one by one.
Next thing you hear, that one was beaten up.
That one was beaten up.
All across, there was chaos in the sense that
although they could not openly fight
because of each person's family, family members.
You see, their hearts amongst the family members,
they were two or three staunch enemies.
And then you would have a few people
whose hearts are softened
and you would have a few Muslims.
So the families were made up of various types of people.
It was impossible for them to beat up people
whose family members were ready to stand up for them
even though they had not been Muslims.
But because of the bond and the link of blood.
So with Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
Abu Jahl, he had a lot of incidents
where he came forth to harm Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam.
And at that stage, remember,
they still used to ask a few questions.
They used to still talk to Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
and say, okay, tell your God this and tell your God that
and we want to know this and we want to know that.
There were four main things
that the Kuffar of Quraysh had denied
or they were finding fault in.
The first was the issue of Wahdaniyya.
Wahdaniyya meaning Tawheed, the oneness of Allah.
How can we worship one God
when we've been worshiping so many Gods all along?
And this is why they began to call him mad.
Has he made all the Gods into one God?
Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
did not make the Gods into one God.
No, he told them all these Gods will neither help nor harm.
You need to worship whoever made you.
What was so wrong about that message?
You need to worship whoever you are going to return to,
the owner of heaven and hell.
You worship him alone,
the one whom you are answerable to.
That is the only one you shall worship.
That is Islam.
And this is what Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
called them towards.
We know the term Allah was used by them as well.
Because Allah means the worshiped one.
And Allah Subhanahu Wa Ta'ala,
they did not deny that they were created by one supreme deity.
But at the same time,
they refused to worship him alone.
They only worshiped him when they were in serious trouble.
So now, Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
being faced with questions about Tawheed.
In fact, the oneness of Allah
was something they continued raising.
If you look at some of the questions
that they had asked Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
they told him,
you are a magician and you are a liar.
Where is he a liar from?
What did he lie about?
He is just telling them,
look, this won't harm and it won't help.
So it cannot harm or help itself.
Why do you call me a liar?
I'm giving you information.
Go and try it, test it, see.
May Allah Subhanahu Wa Ta'ala bless us all.
They went on a smear campaign, character assassination,
or what we can call a media campaign.
On its own level, at that particular time,
they went around Quraysh saying,
this man is possessed.
It's confirmed that he's a madman.
The doctors have come in or the experts have come in.
They've confirmed this man is possessed.
He's a madman.
Or they continue to say,
he is a fortune teller.
You see, he's coming to say things of the future.
And then they also said,
he's a very, very eloquent poet.
But what he came with was not poetry.
They also said, he's mad, possessed,
and he has within him a jinn.
Allah Subhanahu Wa Ta'ala protect us.
They then said someone has done magic on him.
And at one stage, they even said,
he's a magician himself.
Because the magicians,
they separate between husband and wife.
And all these accusations,
all these accusations amounted to nothing
when it came to Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam.
Because Allah Subhanahu Wa Ta'ala
told Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
we have protected you
against those who mock about you.
So they can mock,
it will be to their detriment,
not to yours.
Up to today, that verse is valid.
Those who want to mock at Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
they want to draw cartoons about him.
They want to make images
and they want to try and make fools
of what the messenger's message was and so on.
Allah says, don't worry.
We have protected you from that.
You are far higher than all they can do
when it comes to mocking.
And it will be against them.
Did you realize that when the cartoons were drawn lately,
it resulted in great exposure for Islam
and the Muslims and so many people turned to Islam.
For the first time in their lives,
they found out that it is a religion of purity,
the purest of all religions.
And they began to turn.
Had it not been for those cartoons,
they probably would have still been lying
in their ignorance.
So as we say,
sometimes something appears negative,
but there is a lot of positivity
that comes out of that negative.
Another question they asked,
the second thing that they asked
about life after death.
How can you tell us
that after we are going to be dust,
we're going to be resurrected?
As you know in Surah Yaseen as well,
the question they used to ask,
who is going to give life to these bones
after they are dispersed,
completely decomposed and scattered?
And Allah responds by saying,
say to them,
He will give them life.
Who gave them life in the first place?
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
help us the day He resurrects us.
And may we be from amongst those
who are conscious in our day-to-day lives
as to our deeds
so that we can face Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
and through His mercy
we can attain Jannah and Paradise.
They also,
the third thing that they found fault in
was the messenger himself.
Who are you?
You were an orphan.
You were brought up an orphan.
You didn't even have a father.
And later on your mother also died.
And who are you?
How can you have been chosen by Allah?
They said,
why wasn't this Quran revealed
to a very, very powerful man
either from Makkah or from Ta'if?
Why did it have to be you
who is so weak from amongst us?
So Allah says,
we chose whom we want to give the message to.
Allahu Akbar.
It doesn't mean
that you have the choice and decision.
And then they began to say,
well, why isn't there an angel?
Why doesn't he have an angel with him?
If he's really a messenger,
he must bring an angel.
The angel must talk to us.
So Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala responds
and Allah says,
Subhanallah.
The question was,
why didn't an angel come?
And Allah says,
had we sent an angel,
we would have brought him
in the form of a man.
And the verse just before that
or part of the verse says
that had we sent an angel down,
the matter between them
would have been immediately judged,
decided.
The punishment would have come automatically.
When you ask for a sign
and the sign comes
and then you disbelieve,
you're asking for disaster.
Subhanallah.
So it was Allah's mercy
that he did not send the angel in person
because Allah says,
had we sent it as you wanted it,
we would have then sent the punishment
together with it
for anyone who disbelieved thereafter.
And so many other points
that they raised against Muhammad
sallallahu alaihi wasallam,
one of them was,
why is this prophet
who is claiming to be a prophet
walking in the market places
and eating food like all of us?
He should be someone
who has an angel
doing his errands for him.
And Allah says in response to that,
every messenger that we sent before him,
every one of them walked
in the market places
and ate food.
Subhanallah.
So he is no different.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
safeguard us.
So many things they raised.
Another, the fourth point
that they raised
was regarding the Quran itself.
That this Quran,
why is it coming down
in drips and drabs?
Why is it coming down
verse by verse?
And Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
responds.
Do you know what they said?
Subhanallah.
They questioned,
why doesn't this Quran,
why didn't it come down
all at once like the Torah?
Musa alayhi salam,
the prophet Moses went,
he collected the book,
he came back.
So why didn't this book
come down just like that?
And Allah says,
because Allah wanted it
to strengthen your heart.
It came down bit by bit.
When an incident occurred,
a verse would be revealed.
So nobody would forget it.
To this day,
we have verses,
inshallah, this evening
we are going to look into some of them
where something happened
and verses were revealed.
And immediately,
the problem was solved.
Not only that,
the verse was remembered
with a story.
If I were to tell you a story,
it is far easier for you to remember
the moral of it
than if I were to just recite
rules and regulations for you.
Subhanallah.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
grant us a deep understanding.
So they had raised,
also they raised a point
regarding the same Quran.
Asateerul awaleenak tatabaha
fiyatum laa alayh bukratan wa aseela
These are tales of the past
that have been dictated to him
by night and by day.
So he checked them,
he saw them
and he noted them down
and so on.
And Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
says elsewhere in the Quran.
Wama kunta tatlo min qabnihi min kitab
Wala takhuttu biyameenik
Ithal narutab al mubatiloon
You never read a book.
Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
You never could read a book.
Never.
Before the Quran came,
you could never read a book.
Nor could you write.
Had that been the case,
maybe then they could have doubted
that you got it from others.
But neither could you read nor write.
You've never read a book
nor have you written anything.
So how then can they come up
with these accusations?
Subhanallah.
So everything went back
into their faces.
Subhanallah.
And this is why Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
challenges them.
What does Allah say?
Allah says,
Tell them,
O Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
challenge them.
Lain jtamaatil insu wal jinn
wa ala ayyatoo bimithli
haathal qur'ani laa yaatoon bimithli
wa laukana ba'duhum li ba'din zaheera
If all mankind and jinkind
had to get together
and help one another
to come up with something
similar to the Quran,
they would never ever come up with it.
Challenge number one.
So they obviously surrendered
to the challenge
because they knew
that this is not going to happen.
So Allah says,
Let's make it easier for you.
Are they saying
that this is fabricated?
Tell them,
Bring about ten surahs
similar to it.
Ten chapters similar to it.
And then let's see what happens.
Still, they couldn't do anything.
Then Allah says,
Okay, we make it easier.
Let them come up with one surah
similar to it.
Still, the challenge was not met.
Then there was the challenge
right up to the end of time.
What was the challenge?
Let them come up with anything
similar to it
if they are truthful.
Even if it means a phrase,
a few words,
let them bring it.
They will find
always the Quran will be higher.
They tried
and they said a few things
which had no meaning.
And at the same time,
they were concentrating more
on the rhyming.
Whereas the Quran,
not all the verses rhyme.
Did you know
that the verses that rhyme
all at once,
they are connected to one topic.
The minute the rhyming changes,
the topic has changed.
That's the power of the Quran.
Amazing.
So most of these verses
that were short and sharp
were revealed in Makkah al-Mukarramah.
The Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم
used to read Salah.
It is reported that Abu Jahl,
Al-Akhnus ibn Shuraik
and Abu Sufyan,
these people had got
up at night separately.
And they went to where
Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم
was reciting the Quran in Salah.
And they went to hear him.
Listen.
So neither of them
or not a single one of them
knew that the other one was also there.
But they were hiding in the dark,
listening.
Oh, they enjoy the recitation.
Beautiful meaning,
powerful words.
Allahu Akbar.
And as they were going back,
they bumped into each other.
What are you doing here?
The other one says,
what are you doing here?
Then the third one says,
what are both of you doing here?
Well, what are all three of us doing here?
Well, they had to own up, isn't it?
We came to listen to these words.
Don't you dare come back.
Let's promise.
Okay, we promise.
Next day, same thing happened.
Allahu Akbar.
Why?
The Quran has a pull.
If you have sincerity in your heart,
even to the smallest degree,
even the kuffar,
to be honest,
there are findings today
that people have experimented where
when you play the Quran melodiously
to a baby,
you find the way the baby reacts to it
in a very calm way,
the same reaction happens with adults.
When you play the Quran for them,
the melody of that Quran is such
that it soothes the hearts
and it calms the people
because this is the word of
the creator of the same people.
So these three,
second day, same thing happened.
Third day,
they had to swear big oaths
to say,
we're never ever going to come back again
and after that,
they didn't come back.
But that itself is evidence enough.
Abu Sufyan r.a later on
makes mention of this and he says,
this is what happened.
We are telling you,
Allahu Akbar.
They knew it.
They knew that it's the truth.
This is why Allah reveal verses
to Muhammad s.a.w.
He says,
we know that their utterances
and accusations
and whatever they are saying
by their mouths is hurting you.
We know that it makes you sad
what they utter.
They're uttering so many things,
spreading rumor,
but we want you to know
they do not belie you.
They are denying out of arrogance.
That's what it is.
Deep down in their hearts,
they know what is right and what is wrong,
but they are denying out of arrogance.
That verse comforted Muhammad s.a.w. a lot
because his duty was to deliver the message
and then he realized
the message is being delivered,
but it's the arrogance.
This is why we believe,
Whomsoever Allah has guided,
they shall be guided.
And whosoever Allah
has not written guidance for,
there is no chance
that they will be guided
because guidance is not written for them.
May Allah s.w.t
guide us at all times
and may He make us steadfast.
So these were the challenges
that Allah s.w.t
had given the people of Quraysh
come up with a little portion
similar to the Qur'an.
They couldn't do that.
I was speaking earlier about Abu Jahl.
He had taken a boulder once
after having spoken to the chiefs of Quraysh
in the early days
just after the call
became open and apparent
and he said,
I am going to kill this young man
and then Banu Hashim and those people,
his clan and his family
can do what they want to me.
I just want to sort the problem out
because we're going to lose our power here.
We are powerful people leading Quraysh
and we are calling towards these idols
every year the Arabs are coming around
and they are worshiping the idols
and we are going to lose this power
because He is calling us
to leave everything
that we're doing at this moment in time.
All this worship is a waste of time,
He is saying,
worship your maker
and none other than your maker.
So if that's the case,
we're going to lose,
what should we do?
Well, I'm going to sort him out.
So he decided the following day
he took the boulder
whilst Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
was in sajda,
he was about to throw that boulder
on Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
from a little bit of a height
and suddenly he stopped
and he turned around,
he went back,
he put the boulder down
and the people of Quraysh
who were watching him
started laughing at him,
hey, what happened here?
You the big man of Quraysh here
and now what has happened here?
He says, you know,
when I got near him,
I suddenly saw a massive camel,
huge camel come in my direction
and it wanted to eat me up,
Allahu Akbar,
and a big man,
he was so worried,
so scared,
he started seeing this camel
and he says,
I quickly turned around,
I put the boulder down
and I carried on.
Allah, he doesn't that sound
like a little baby,
Allahu Akbar.
This was Allah protecting his messenger,
this was Allah,
this has happened twice to Abu Jahl,
the ones he was,
he had oppressed a man,
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness
and Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wasallam
was there,
the people of Quraysh told this man,
if Abu Jahl owes you money,
there's only one way you're going to get it
and they said this jokingly,
they wanted to make a mockery
of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam,
they said go to Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam,
if he talks to Abu Jahl,
you'll get your money back.
Now that was a mockery
because they knew these two,
obviously nobody is going to listen to the other here,
so when this man went to Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam,
Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
told him come,
let's go,
he went to Abu Jahl,
knocked on his door,
Abu Jahl opened the door
and when he opened the door,
Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam says,
you owe this man some money,
he says yes I do
and he gave the man his money,
and the problem was solved.
So the people of Quraysh,
they got to hear about it,
the leaders said Abu Jahl,
what happened?
The same thing happened,
he says when the knock on the door happened,
I got frightened,
I came to the door
and I was so scared
and when I came there,
I saw these two people,
I was asked for the wealth
and as I was about to answer,
I saw the same camel come in my direction,
Allahu Akbar,
that was the punishment of Allah to Abu Jahl
and that was also showing Quraysh
that don't make a mockery of this messenger,
we have protected him against all mocking.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us all.
So that was Abu Jahl
and this is what he had done.
Also if you look at verses of the Qur'an,
you see the first surah,
the first verses that were revealed were Iqra,
we know that.
If you look further down that surah,
you will find certain verses
relating to Abu Jahl.
If you pick up the English translation
and read those verses,
you will find something very interesting.
Abu Jahl,
every time he saw Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam praying,
he would go and stop him,
and he would physically try and chase him away.
So what had happened?
Allah revealed verses
and these verses were directed to Abu Jahl
and mentioning his story.
Right to the end of that surah,
the verses meaning,
do you see the one
who stops the worshipper from praying?
Do you see the one
who is stopping the worshipper from praying?
Does he not see?
What if he is on the right path?
What if Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam is correct?
Then what is this man going to do?
And what if this man here is totally wrong?
What's going to happen?
So why stop a man who is praying to the Almighty?
For what?
Why stop him?
And these verses admonished Abu Jahl
and warned him of a severe punishment to say,
you can do what you want,
you can call all your helpers,
but on that day,
we will call the gatekeepers of hell
and they will take you.
They will take you from your fall lock.
You read those verses,
very powerful verses in the same surah.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala open our doors.
Another man, Abu Lahab.
And we need to know these names,
the names of the enemies,
just like we knew the names
or we learned the names of those
who had accepted Islam in the early days.
We will also know who were those
who harmed Islam and who harmed the messenger
sallallahu alayhi wa sallam.
Abu Lahab was his uncle
and he was also a neighbor.
And every day,
he used to throw out his rubbish and dirt
at the door of his neighbor,
Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam.
So Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
used to come out and see all the dirt
and all the bin literally of Abu Lahab
at his doorstep.
And he would take it away
and he would continue saying,
ayyu jiwarin hadha.
What kind of a neighbor is this?
Up to today,
we as Muslims are not allowed
to do anything that would harm our neighbor,
whether he is a Muslim or not.
We are not allowed to do anything.
So much so that if you want to light
a fire or a smoke,
make sure that the smoke
does not affect them negatively.
Ensure that.
Otherwise, we cannot call ourselves
true followers of this message.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness.
Some people,
astaghfirullah.
They disturb the neighbor with so much noise
every single day.
And the neighbors,
if they are not Muslim
or if they are Muslim,
did you know they have a right
for you to ensure the peace
and the calm within their home.
They must not be harmed from your noise.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala safeguard us.
So Abu Lahab,
he was one of those who did that.
And you know,
his wife Ummu Jamil was also a culprit.
She used to also throw defecation
at Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam,
literally.
And Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
spoke about her in surah Lahab,
as we heard yesterday.
May Allah safeguard us.
These people did nothing good for themselves.
Because one is to keep quiet
and to carry on with whatever you are doing.
But the other is to get up and harm the man.
Harm the man.
If you are going to harm him,
you will really pay for it.
And may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us.
Today what happens in our societies,
we hear of something
and we don't even know this man
serves the cause of Allah.
He has dedicated his life
to serve the Deen of Allah.
And what we do?
We spread rumor about him.
We spread gossip about him.
We make his life difficult.
We cause this and cause that.
What will happen as a result?
Do we not think Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
will deal with us?
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala forgive us.
May he make us from those
who are worried about ourselves
and our deeds.
And we are worried about our link
with our maker.
And if we are worried about others,
we are meant to be worried
about our brothers and sisters
across the globe
who are suffering.
And if we can,
we should do something positive about it.
But we should never engage
in something negative.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us.
A very dangerous man,
his name was Uqbah ibn Abi Muait.
This man,
when Abu Jahl called out one day,
and he said,
I have the defecation of these camels.
Who is going to throw it
on Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
when he is in sajda?
Imagine,
when he is in sajda.
And Uqbah ibn Abi Muait got up.
He picked up this thing here.
And Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
was in sajda.
And literally,
the defecation of the camel,
a'udhu billah, Allah safeguard us.
He threw it onto the back
of Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam.
And he remained in sajda.
The Muslims at the time were weak.
Nobody could go to remove it.
Do you know what happened?
His little daughter Fatima radiallahu anha,
small little girl,
what she did,
she saw her father
in this condition of sujood.
And she saw that
he's got all this on his back.
These people of Makkah
have really harassed him.
They have thrown this.
So she went
and she took it off his back.
And she actually wiped it out completely.
And then he got up from sajda.
And this is what Uqba ibn Abi Mu'ayyaf did.
When Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam
got up,
he says,
Allahumma alayka bifulan wa fulan.
Oh Allah,
I hand so and so over to you.
And he mentioned names.
Imagine,
for the messenger to make a dua.
Oh Allah,
I'm handing them over to you.
Alayka bihim.
Ya Allah,
you deal with them.
What a powerful way of making dua.
He was executed
after the battle of Badr.
He was one of those who was taken captive
and executed.
And together with him
was a friend of his as well.
Who also harassed Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
a lot
by the name of An-Nadhri ibn al-Harif.
So we ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
to safeguard us
from the dua of his friends against us.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
protect us at all times.
So this Uqba ibn Abi Mu'ayyaf,
this was one of the ways
that he had hassled
Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam.
He was also a neighbor
of Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam.
One day he invited Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
to his home
with the people of Quraysh.
And Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
used to go
whenever Quraysh invited him
because he would feel
maybe they might listen to me,
maybe they might
listen to a word or two
and come onto the right path.
So when Uqba ibn Abi Mu'ayyaf invited him,
he went and he entered the house
and he says,
Ya Uqba,
do you know what?
I'm not going to eat your food
until you bear witness
that there is none worthy of worship
but Allah
and that I am the messenger of Allah.
So Uqba ibn Abi Mu'ayyaf looked at him
and said,
I bear witness
that there is none worthy of worship
but Allah
and I bear witness
that you are a messenger.
So the people of Quraysh later on,
they said,
What did you say?
Did we hear you say
that you bear witness?
He said,
No,
I had a guest in my house
who refused to eat
until I said a few words.
So I said them,
I seek refuge in Allah.
That was the worst statement
he could have ever uttered
because there were others
who were weak and downtrodden in Mecca.
They never cheated in that way.
When they uttered it,
they uttered it powerfully
with sincerity.
This man was wealthy.
He had nothing to lose
whether he said it or not.
He could have told him,
Hey, you can carry on
but he didn't do that.
He decided to cheat
and because of that,
he paid a heavy price.
One day he was so upset.
He came to Muhammad
sallallahu alayhi wasallam
and this was one of the worst things
that had happened in Mecca
to Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam.
He took a piece of cloth,
this uqba Ibn Abi Mu'ayd
and he strangled Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
and he kept pulling this cloth
and Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
was choking
and the only person
who had rushed to his help
was Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiallahu anhu.
And he rushed
and he wrestled this uqba
and released Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
from that strangled hold
and he said
How can you kill a man
who is saying,
my Lord is Allah
and he has brought you clear cut signs
and you want to kill him.
Leave him alone at least.
This was that uqba.
Another man who really harassed
Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
was Al-Aas ibn Wail.
He was a man who constantly used to pass
and laugh and joke.
He used to say,
these people believe in life after death.
They say there's going to be heaven
and everybody's going to get so many nice things
and there's going to be hell
and there's going to be this and that.
So every time he used to pass,
he used to joke about it
and he used to say
Those verses were revealed
saying the statement
that this man Al-Aas ibn Wail
used to utter
and the people of Quraysh.
They used to say,
oh, we are only going to live in this life
and there is no life after death.
Whatever will kill us
or what will actually kill us is time.
It's only time that makes us old
and we will die.
We're not going to be resurrected
and Allah says
those are their doubts.
What do they know?
But this man crossed a certain limit.
What was that limit?
He was owed money by Khabbab ibn al-Arat.
In fact, he owed money
to Khabbab ibn al-Arat radiallahu anhu.
Al-Aas ibn Wail owed money
to Khabbab ibn al-Arat who was a Muslim
and Khabbab ibn al-Arat
every time he went to him,
this man used to duck and die
because now the Muslims,
nobody's going to come and say,
hey, where's this man's money?
So one day Khabbab ibn al-Arat
had got hold of a few people
and they went to this man
and told him,
look, you know,
you need to give him his money.
So Al-Aas ibn Wail says,
isn't he one of those
who believes that there's going to be heaven
and there's going to be lots of goodness
and in heaven,
you get whatever you want and so on?
So Khabbab says,
yes, indeed, I believe that
there will be heaven
and we get what we want there.
So he says,
so give me a little bit of time
when we get to heaven
and I get whatever I want,
then I'll pay you your money.
Now look at how foolish he is.
So Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
revealed verses exposing this man.
...
Do you see this man
who has disbelieved in our signs
and he is saying
that I am going to be given
lots of wealth
and lots of children in paradise
and Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala asks a question,
does he even think
he's going to go to paradise
and does he even know
whether he's going to get anything
or not?
Subhanallah.
How can he come and utter
that, okay, I'm going to go to paradise
when he just believes in it.
So this was also exposing
this man Al-Aas ibn Wa'il
when it came to him
and the money that he owed
Khabbab ibn Al-Arat r.a.
Remember, every time
these bad things happened,
it drifted the people
who did them further
and further away from the message.
Look at the others
who had harmed Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam,
Al-Aswad ibn Al-Muttalib,
this was a cousin of Khadija r.a.
And he used to laugh at the Muslims
and the verses in Surah Al-Mutaffifim
were revealed regarding this man.
The criminals used to laugh
at those who believe.
Up to today,
you want to grow your beard
according to the teachings
of all the messengers
whether it is Jesus peace be upon him,
Moses peace be upon him,
Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
or all the other messengers,
every single one of them grew facial hair.
So if you d like to grow it,
you find people
making a mockery out of you.
They laugh.
You find women who want to cover
and dress
according to the dress code
of the Muslims.
In fact, it goes back further
than that.
Even Mary,
Maryam a.s.
may peace be upon her,
the mother of Jesus
may peace be upon her.
What type of clothing did she wear?
We do not draw images of her.
But the Christians
who draw images of her,
have they ever drawn images of her
with a jeans
or a t-shirt
or a hipster?
No.
They drew her images exactly
how the Muslim women dressed today.
Subhanallah.
But we are considered people
who are backward
because we want to follow
the mother of Jesus
may peace be upon her
in her dress code.
Allahu Akbar.
Look at how the world
has gone upside down.
We want to follow Jesus
may peace be upon him
in his looks.
Have you ever seen them?
We don't draw images
as you know.
Have you seen them
draw images of Jesus
may peace be upon him
in a suit and a tie,
clean shaven?
Not one.
Never.
So when we want to wear our robes
and grow our beards,
they tell us
these people are like this
and these people are like that.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala guide them
and may He guide us as well.
So this man used to laugh.
These verses in Surah al-Mutaffifeen
were revealed about him
and Allah says
فَالْيَوْمَ الَّذِينَ آمَنُوا مِنَ الْكُفَّارِ يَضْحَكُونَ
On this day,
the believers will be given
the opportunity to laugh
at those who laughed at them
from amongst the disbelievers.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless us all
and grant us goodness.
There was another man
known as Al-Walid ibn al-Mughirah.
He was the uncle of Abu Jahl.
He also had a lot
to do in terms of harm
against the Muslims.
He went to Rasulullah
sallallahu alayhi wasallam
and he heard verses of the Quran.
He came back to his people
and he told his people
I have heard the Quran
and you know what?
It is very powerful.
It is not the speech of an ordinary man
nor is it the speech of a fortune teller
nor is it the speech of a poet
nor is it the speech of a mad man.
No, it has a sweetness in it
and it will have some form of rank
in the very near future
because it is very powerful.
And the people of Quraysh were shocked
because he was the uncle of Abu Jahl
and he was one of the leaders.
They said are you senile?
This man has now gone mad.
Abu Jahl decided to go to him
and spoke to him
and began to weep and tell him
how can you say this?
Come on, a man like you,
we look up to you,
we can't lose you,
we cannot lose you
to this type of thing.
And so he got up
and he walked to the rest of Quraysh
and he says do you ever think
Muhammad was mad?
He was never mad
and there is no sign of madness in him.
They were watching him.
Does he look like he's a fortune teller?
He's not a fortune teller.
They were watching him, they shocked.
Does he look like a person
who is a magician?
Does he look like he's a person
who is this and that, so many things?
And thereafter, when all of them
were looking at him quite shocked,
he then says, well, I think
we'd rather just call him a magician
because it's magicians who separate
between husband and wife
and family members
and that's what he has done.
So they all started laughing.
Look at how he almost accepted the message
but because of his colleagues
and his dignity in society,
he did not want to accept the message.
This was Al-Walid ibn al-Mughirah.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us all.
Al-Nadr ibn al-Harith,
he used to always say,
I have better speech than Muhammad
sallallahu alayhi wa sallam.
Come listen to me.
When the Quran was being read,
they used to say,
whilst the Quran was being read,
make a lot of noise.
Don't listen, make a lot of noise
because if you want to overpower
Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
don't listen to his message.
Why did they say that?
The minute people heard the message,
they turned.
They heard a verse, they turned.
They heard five verses, they turned.
So they had one option,
make a noise, ban him.
Don't allow him to read.
Stop it.
We don't want to hear these words.
And so Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says,
this is what they uttered.
This man used to say,
no, no, no, come to me.
I will give you better stories.
And he knew a few stories
of the Persian Empire.
So he used to come and make mention
of this Persian leader
and that Persian leader
which was nothing like the Quran.
And Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
protected Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
from this.
And Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
granted him elevation
although they were persecuted
to a great degree.
Allah blessed Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
with an uncle.
An uncle who was never a Muslim,
but he was just
and he had a feeling for his nephew.
And this is why
they could not kill Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
because Abu Talib
who was one of the leaders of Quraysh,
powerful leader.
When Abu Jahl and them
planned to harm Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
he told them,
you dare touch him.
If you do, war will break out.
So now they knew,
we cannot touch the man.
And this is why Allah had protected
Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
and the same applies to others who had family.
They were protected
because they had family members
who always stood by them.
And Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
had granted this Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
this uncle who did not accept the message.
Quraysh went to the uncle
and told him,
talk to your nephew,
tell him to stop.
So when he went to the nephew,
he said,
look, you know,
you're putting me in a spot here.
Quraysh, we know we have got good dealings with them.
We are related.
And, you know, now you are,
you have come with what you have come with.
Why don't you stop saying all this?
Because it's about time you stopped.
He told his uncle wallahi,
if you were to put the sun in my right hand
and the moon in my left hand
and instruct me to stop what I am doing,
I will not stop it.
I'm asking them to leave their idols.
What's wrong?
This was the persecution.
So his uncle looked at him and said,
oh, my nephew,
carry on.
Don't worry.
Carry on.
You are safe.
Imagine.
Meaning deep down,
he knew what was right.
He knew what was right.
And Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala had then,
meaning blessed Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
much more.
He had respect in Quraysh,
but at the same time,
hatred.
They were forced to respect him,
but deep down,
they hated him.
In fact, what they did,
and this is a very interesting story.
They got together
and they decided,
let's send a man from amongst us,
an eloquent man.
This eloquent man,
we will send him
and he will go to Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
and address him,
ask him questions
and offer him whatever he wants
because they now noticed Islam was growing
and it was becoming strong.
Nearly every powerful family
had some members in it who were Muslim.
So Utba ibn Rabi'ah was a man who decided,
okay, I'm going to go.
He went to Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
and he says,
oh, you're a relative of ours.
You know, we know your status,
very high standing and so on
and we'd like you to understand
that we don't want to be at war, loggerheads.
What do you want?
You want wealth?
We give you wealth.
You want position?
We make you our leader.
You want women?
You can marry whom you want.
You want authority?
We make you the leader
and you can be in authority.
What is it that you want?
You name what you'd like,
we give it to you.
And he continued to say,
but just stop talking about these idols
and stop talking about this condition of ours.
We're enjoying life.
Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam told him,
are you done?
He says, yes.
Now listen to me.
And he began reading verses,
the opening verses of Surah Fussilat,
also known as Hameem al-Sajda.
This man was shocked, gobsmacked,
listening to these verses,
powerful verses.
Let us go home inshallah this evening
and look up Surah Fussilat
and check the meanings
of the first verses of the Surah
until the verse
where the punishment of Ad and Thamud
is made mention of.
And we will see
when the Prophet peace be upon him
got to the verse saying,
if they turn away,
warn them of the similar punishment
that had struck Ad and Thamud before them,
Utba ibn Rabi'ah took his hand
and covered the mouth of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
and said, stop,
I don't even want to hear.
And thereafter he went back to Quraysh
and told him, I have heard a word
and I'm telling you
this word is going to overpower us completely.
And they looked at him,
but we sent you to go
and tell the man something,
you're coming back telling us something else.
He says, no, no, no,
I'm not accepting it,
but I just want to let you know
in my view,
this word is extremely powerful.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us
the ability to understand
that if the enemies can confirm
that the word is powerful,
what about us who are Muslims?
Have we read it yet?
This is why I say this evening inshallah,
let us go back home
and let us look at the verses
of Surah Fussilat
also known as Hameem as-Sajda
and let us read the meanings
and see what was said to this man
Utba ibn Rabi'ah that moved him.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala move us
until we meet again.